IPL Complete Dataset
The Indian Premier League is a professional men's Twenty20 cricket league, contested by ten teams based in seven Indian cities and three Indian states. The league was founded by the Board of Control for Cricket in India in 2007.

A lot of times, we need to answer complex data analytical questions or take data-driven decisions, or complex data visualizations. To accomplish the above tasks we need

Detailed Data
Clean processed data
Understanding of data, "Simple to understand Data"
Methodology
The data was formulated keeping in mind the important factors in mind when analysis of IPL players is to be done. The earlier datasets available online are great in terms of data, but preprocessing them, and making it u useful takes a lot of time.
This is where this dataset can be useful.


Data description
Bowling Data
There are 6 files related to the Bowling Data of the IPL. 
One File contains data about the complete perfomance of the player over the years from the start of ipl to the current year (2021).
Other 5 files contains data ranging the perfomance of the player from the year 2017 to 2021. 
All 6 files contains 6 columns, which are:
1. Name - Name of the bowler
2. Over - Number of total bowlers bowled by the bowler in that year.
3. Maidens - Nummber of total maidens overs bowled by the bowler in that year
4. Runs_Conceded - Number of total runs conceded by the bowler.
5. Wickets - Number of wickets taken by the bowler. 
6. Dots - Number of dots balls balled by the bowler.

Batting Data
There are 6 files related to the Batting Data of the IPL. 
One File contains data about the complete perfomance of the player over the years from the start of ipl to the current year (2021).
Other 5 files contains data ranging the perfomance of the player from the year 2017 to 2021. 
All 6 files contains 6 columns, which are:
1. Name - Name of the  Batsman
2. runs - Number of runs Batsman scored in that year. 
3. balls - Number of balls faced. 
4. fours - Number of fours hit by the batsman.
5. Sixs - Number of sixs hit by the Batsman.
6. sr - Strike rate of the batsman. 